# um_thesis
Despite all the recent initiatives and efforts done to mitigate environmental problems associated to urban activities, one of the main questions when attempting to create more sustainable communities concerns the ways in which we set our progress towards sustainable development. Therefore, to achieve sustainability goals, it is relevant to understand processes that control and influence the flows of resources within the urban environment. 
Focusing on the concept of urban metabolism (UM) offers the possibility to contribute to a more sustainable city. When it comes to UM studies, there is a dominant lack in analysing the wide spatial diversity and temporal variability that exists within cities, which is essential for formulating effective strategies towards a more circular metabolism. Hence, the objective of this study is to look at the variability of domestic energy use within cities and find potential explanatory factors for these differences, which can be helpful for constructing urban metabolic profiles (UMPs) for Dutch cities. Formulating effective policies and designs for circularity, after all, requires not only insight in what a city’s metabolism temporally and spatially looks like, but also why it looks the way it does. This is done by using a random forest approach, which differentiates this study from previous multi-linear analyses on Amsterdam, due to its potential to identify non-linear relationships between energy use and independent variables.
The results of the study show that there are similarities and differences in the importance of variables for explaining spatial variation of energy use between small, middle sized and large cities. Apparent are the varying roles that migration background and house value play between city types. When looking at the results for Amsterdam, factors like house ownership play a much larger role than in other studies, while many factors are found important both in this study and in previous research done on Amsterdam. 

